Donald Trump was inaugurated as the 45th President of the United States at noon EST on January 20, 2017, succeeding Barack Obama. Trump, the Republican nominee, was a businessman and reality television personality from New York City at the time of his victory in the 2016 presidential election over the Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. While Trump lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes, he won the Electoral College vote by 304 to 227.[1] His running mate, former Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, took office as the 48th Vice President of the United States on the same day. Trump's term in office is set to end on January 20, 2021, though he is eligible for election to a second term and has declared his intention to run, announcing his reelection campaign on the day of his inauguration. Opinion polls have shown Trump to be the least popular President in the history of modern American presidential opinion polling, as of the end of his first year in office.[2]

Upon taking office, Trump repealed regulations intended to address climate change, such as the Clean Power Plan, and withdrew from the Paris Agreement on climate change mitigation. Trump also withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, issued a controversial executive order denying entry into the U.S. to citizens of certain countries, and withdrew from the Iran nuclear agreement. Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which had protected undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as minors from deportation. Trump also announced that the United States would recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, forge closer ties to Saudi Arabia, and restrict transgender and transsexual people from the military.

Trump also initiated a trade war with China,[3] as well as against America's closest allies,[4] by imposing tariffs on imports. As of June 2018, the trade war wiped out all gains in the Dow Jones made in 2018,[5] increased or was expected to increase the prices for a range of producer and consumer goods, and contributed to an increase in the interest rate on US government debt.[6]

Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch to a vacant seat on the Supreme Court, whose nomination was confirmed by the Senate in April 2017. Trump worked with congressional Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but the repeal bill failed in the Senate in July. In December 2017, Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which dramatically lowered corporate and estate taxes.

After Trump dismissed FBI Director James Comey in 2017, a special counsel was appointed to take over an existing FBI investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 elections and related matters, including coordination or links between the Trump campaign and Russian government; the investigation has resulted in several indictments and guilty pleas involving Trump campaign advisors and staff.